this is Neil
Patel helping you succeed through online
marketing all right so we're going to
talk about how to measure the ROI of
your content efforts in
2023 so when it comes to 2023 you got
Google analytics 4 if you haven't used
it you pretty much have no choice by now
and you may notice you're not getting
all the data that you really want
especially when it comes to your content
marketing the quickest way that I found
to measure the ROI of my content
marketing is a UTM parameters you're
supposed to use UTM parameters for
external not internal tracking it's not
the right way to do it but for someone
who doesn't have tons of resources it's
just a quick little hack that can end up
giving you some quick insights but the
way I actually measure them dude is I
just run AB test and this is a little
bit unorthodox but what I'll do is I run
AB test to see which content pieces like
what call to actions I can add in there
are boosting conversions and then what I
do is because you take your most popular
pages right those are the easiest ones
to run AB test on with your content so
then I'll put call to actions if you R
in my blog post you'll see that I have
call to actions for my services if I
selling products I'll do products within
there within my sidebar as well within
links within my content and then once I
figure out the type of call to action
that works the best I implement it
throughout all my posts and then within
my Salesforce we can see what leads come
from what content pieces that someone
first read and then from there we're um
looking at what uh content sources
didn't just provide the best leads but
also caus the uh most closes and then uh
we end up producing more of that content
over anything else and that just helps
us not just measure the ROI but more so
impact how many more leads we're going
to get and I think that's more important
than just measuring the ROI because what
you'll find with your content Marketing
in the long run a lot your traffic comes
from SEO but your post can go up and
down in traffic you got to figure out a
how do you convert those visitors into
leads or sales and that's why you do
experimentations on your call to actions
and B you got to figure out all right
what topics are driving the most revenue
and then you just start creating more
content around those topics so let's
clar ify here so the first one that you
mentioned around UTM is really for
everything right now the second one is
more so for the content on your site the
the second way is of running
experiments just because you get traffic
to your content most people get the
traffic but they don't know how to
convert it you got to run a ton of
experiments on what call to actions
actually drive the most conversions and
you do it with your most popular post
it's too hard to do on all of them look
over 6,000 blog post there's no way I'm
doing it on all 6,000 and then the Third
Way is you end up up um tracking which
content types like topics are generating
you the most revenue and then you just
create tons more content around those
topics and to clarify on that point if
you have if I have an article on
beginner tips at SEO and that's driving
a lot of Revenue I wouldn't go create um
the newbies guy to SEO or the dummies
guy to SEO or how to get started with
SEO because that's all around the same
thing then you're just regurgitating and
then it causes confusion with Google on
what wantes to rank but if I know SEO
worked well the beginers guide to SEO
then I may create content around like
how to get more traffic through SEO
through Global expansion or how to build
links through infographics because
that's a subset of SEO you know I think
when I first started in digital
marketing maybe it was um 2010 2011 or
so a lot I mean that was when you used
Google analytics and you had organic
keyword data you can literally see which
keywords were converting right and then
he started to hide that and it said you
know not provide Ed or whatever right
what I would say is I think for both
Neil and I because we come from that
that a little old school era where you
can see a lot of data we're trying to
retrain ourselves at least I am to not
stress over trying to measure every
single thing there look at it as like a
sliding scale right sometimes it can be
like measure versus don't measure and it
just depends on what it is that you're
doing so if it's like more blog content
more email stuff maybe I'll try to
measure more paid media St I'm going to
try to measure more but if it's organic
stuff maybe I'm not going to try to
measure as much Neil
I think that's pretty much it you guys
now know how to get a better Roi of your
content marketing just follow the
strategies we said it works um it's a
little pain in the butt to do the
experimentation part but that's really
what you need to do uh and it's funny
cuz I see a lot of Corporations try to
measure the ROI of content marketing and
like we get all this traffic doesn't
work but they don't actually focus on
improving the ROI of their content
marketing which is the hardest now if
you have any questions leave a comment
below I'm here to answer them and help
you out if you enjoy the video like it
share tell people about it thank you
very much